Address of the Deputy Chairperson of the Assembly of Tibetan People’s Deputies

Today, December 10 is the 16th auspicious anniversary of the conferment of the prestigious Nobel Peace Prize to His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama. On this occasion it is my immense pleasure to welcome the members of the Sangha, the Supreme Justice Commissioners, Kalon Tripa and other members of the Kashag, former kalons, heads of the autonomous bodies, Secretaries and the staff of the Central Tibetan Administration, members of the local assembly, Local welfare officer, members of the Tibetan Freedom Movement, members of the Indo-Tibetan Friendship Society, Bharat Tibat Sahyog Manch, the general public and the students present here.

Today as we celebrate the confluence of three important occasions. On behalf of the Tibetan people inside Tibet and Diaspora, Assembly of Tibetan people’s Deputies pray with gratitude, reverence and extent our heartfelt felicitation to His Holiness the Dalai Lama on the 16th auspicious anniversary of His Holiness being honored as the champion of world peace with the prestigious Nobel Peace Prize. We would like to take this opportunity to pray for His Holiness the Dalai Lamas’ long life and fulfillment of all his wishes and also to appeal to His Holiness to continue to work for the benefits of all the sentient being, particularly the Tibetan people. As all of you know very well, in the year 1949, when our neighboring country China began marching into eastern Tibet following which the political situation in Tibet became very critical. In spite of the perverse armed conquest of Tibet, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, showing great courage, had sincerely tried to appease the situation through a peaceful means. However, by the year 1959 the entire territories of the three regions of Tibet was illegally taken over, compelling His Holiness the Dalai Lama to seek political asylum in the neighbouring friendly nation, India. Upon his arrival in exile, His Holiness immediately set upon democratizing Tibetan Government-in-exile, gradually establishes monasteries, settlement and school all over India to preserve and promote Tibetan culture.

By awarding Nobel Peace prize and numerous other accolades to His Holiness the Dalai Lama, the world has acknowledged his determined effort in creating conflict free non-violent society. He visited many countries to promote peace and happiness in the world and was very relentless in his effort to spread the messages of compassion, loving-kindness, non-violence and interdependence across all section of the humanities. As his affection for the humanity spread far and wide, the people began to understand the plight of Tibet which is based on truth and as a result, several Parliamentary groups for Tibet have been formed and they have passed numerous resolutions supporting the just cause of Tibet. The 4th World Parliamentarians’ Convention on Tibet which was held at Edinburgh from November 18-19 has acknowledged the efforts of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and passed Edinburgh Declaration to support His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s Middle Way Approach based on non-violence. The convention was attended by 133 delegations from various countries.

The clearest example of the Dalai Lama’s influence and impact was made stark when the BBC sponsored poll – & the dream rulers & dated 3rd October, 2005 where it announced His Holiness the Dalai Lama on third rank. This reflection of his influence in the world is a matter of great pride for us. While honoring His Holiness’ achievements and contributions, the Tibetan people must adhere to the advice of His Holiness the Dalai Lama given from time to time.

Today we are also celebrating World Human Rights Day. In the year 1945, when the United Nation Organization was first constituted, there were only 50 member countries. However, over the years the fall of colonialism has allowed emergence of independent states. Therefore, today the world premier organization has around 191 member countries. Every year we celebrate World Human Rights Day on 10th December with great joy and happiness. However, the issues of Tibet remain unresolved even though it is one of the oldest unresolved disputes in the world. The Chinese government continues denial of human rights to the Tibetan people finds mention in many countries important yearly state reports on human rights. In conjunction to the recent celebration of the 40th anniversary of the so-called Tibet Autonomous Region, the Chinese Government has started campaigning aggressively their & patriotic education & policy in Tibet, particularly targeting the religious institutions in Tibet. As a result of Chinese authorities’ policies and intimidation on the Tibetan people to denounce His Holiness the Dalai Lama and accept Tibet to be part of China, monk Nawang Jangchub of Drepung Monastery has very sadly become yet another victim of their repressive policy. Thereafter, numbers of monks were expelled from the Drepung Monastery and the situation in and around Drepung Monastery and others monasteries are very tense and therefore, a matter of great concern.

We are also celebrating 11th anniversary of World Himalayan festival, and taking opportunity of the occasion, Assembly of Tibetan people’s deputies would like to felicitate the friends of Tibet who are gathered here with us today. The prime objective of this festival is to strengthen the friendships that exist between the people of Tibet and the Indian friends. Towards this end, we would like to recognize the tireless effort and contribution of Indo-Tibetan friendship society and Bharat Tibat Sehyog Manch. Besides, we would also like to entreat the Tibetan people to preserve friendship with the local people and also respect the law of the land. Taking this opportunity, we would like to express our gratitude and appreciation to the government and the people of India.

Finally, we pray for the long life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and fulfillment of all his wishes and also the resolution of Tibetan problem as early as possible.




